# 210project
This repository contains Python files for generating synthetic social media post data and analyzing the dataset. 

## Features
- **Data Generation**: Generate synthetic data to perform analysis on.
- **Data Analysis**: 
    - Plot data in many different ways
    - Analyze how data visualization can be misleading when focused on one subset of the data.

## Setup Instructions
**1. Install the required libraries.**
You can install the necessary libraries by running the following command:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**2. Generate the dataset**
The dataset can be generated by running the generate.py file. A generated dataset "posts.db" comes included with 10000 observations.
-   `database_size` Number of observations in the generated database.
-   `percent_twitternegative` Percentage of posts to generate with "Negative" sentiment on "Twitter" platform.
-   `percent_instanegative` Percentage of posts to generate with "Negative" sentiment on "Instagram" platform.
-   `percent_facebooknegative` Percentage of posts to generate with "Negative" sentiment on "Facebook" platform.
-   `start_year` Starting year for dataset.
-   `end_year` Ending year for dataset.
-   `pos_increase` How intense the number of positive posts increases per year. Higher = bigger increase. Number between 0 and 1, can be negative as well.

**3. Generate data summary**
To gain a general overview of the data, run the `summary()` function in main.py. This will create a .txt file called "summary.txt" which contains general information about the data. A summary.txt file comes already included on the generated dataset.

**4. Generate plots**
To better understand the generated data, run the `plot_data()` function in main.py.

**5. Run predictions using Linear Regression with sklearn**
To see how social media sentiments might change in the future based on historical data, run the `predict_future()` function in main.py.